docs/chapter02.md, before:

# Chapter 2. Installing and Configuring DreamFactory



## Choosing a DreamFactory Version

Regardless of whether you'd like to spin up a DreamFactory instance on your local laptop, within a cloud environment such as AWS or Google Cloud, or Docker, we have a ready-made solution for you!

### The DreamFactory GitHub Repository

Cloning DreamFactory's OSS repository has long been by far the most popular way to access the software. To clone the repository you'll need to install a Git client on your local machine or a server, at which point you can clone it using the following command:

    $ git clone https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/dreamfactory/

DreamFactory is built atop the very popular [Laravel Framework](http://www.laravel.com), which is in turn built atop PHP. This means DreamFactory is almost ubiquitously supported in all hosting environments; you'll just need to make sure your hosting environment is running PHP 7.1 or greater, a recent version of a web server such as Apache or NGINX, access to one of four databases for storing configuration data (MySQL/MariaDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and MS SQL Server are supported), and that you have adequate permissions to install a few requisite PHP extensions. You can learn more about the required software and extensions via our wiki:

[http://wiki.dreamfactory.com/DreamFactory/Installation#GitHub](http://wiki.dreamfactory.com/DreamFactory/Installation#GitHub)

### Docker

Our Docker container is increasingly popular, and includes everything you need to run DreamFactory including Ubuntu 16.04, PHP 7.1, and the NGINX web server. It also includes all of the required PHP extensions, meaning you should be able to begin experimenting with the latest DreamFactory version as quickly as you can spin up the container! To learn more about the container, head over to our df-docker repository:

[https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/df-docker](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/df-docker)

### Bitnami

Many users simply want to evaluate DreamFactory without putting any time or effort whatsoever into procuring a test server or fiddling with configuration issues. If you fall into this category then our Bitnami point-and-click installers are for you! These virtual machines include everything you need to begin running DreamFactory, and include a built-in database server, web server, PHP runtime, and a bunch of other useful software.

Installers are available for Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X. Download your desired version via the following link:

[https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads](https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads)

### Cloud Images

Cloud environments are the hosting solution of choice these days, and for good reason. Cloud service providers offer unsurpassed levels of stability, performance, and security, and countless additional features capable of maximizing IT teams' efficiency while minimizing costs. DreamFactory offers Bitnami images targeting all of the major cloud providers, including AWS, Azure, Google, and Oracle Cloud. Download your desired version via the following link:

[https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads](https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads)

## Configuring DreamFactory

If you've cloned the GitHub repository, you'll need to carry out a few additional steps before launching your DreamFactory instance. The first step involves installing the required PHP packages using Composer:

    $ composer install --no-dev

The `--no-dev` option tells Composer to not install the development-specific dependencies. These development dependencies are used by our OSS community and internal developers alike to assist in software development. You can review the list of both required and developmental dependencies by opening the `composer.json` file found in the project's root directory.

If you receive an error regarding `TODO WHAT IS THIS ERROR TODO`, and you don't require MongoDB, then you can quickly hurdle the issue by additionally supplying the `--ignore-platform-reqs` option when running Composer.

With the packages installed, you'll next need to configure your system database. This database will house various configuration settings associated with your instance. DreamFactory supports four databases for this purpose, including Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. Keep in mind you'll need to first create this database along with an account DreamFactory will use to connect to it.

You'll configure the system database by running a terminal command and answering a few prompts about your database configuration. 

To do so, run the following command from inside your project's root directory:

    $ php artisan df:env
	**************************************************
	* Configuring DreamFactory... 
	**************************************************
	Created .env file with default configuration.
	Created phpunit.xml with default configuration.

	 Which database would you like to use for system tables? [sqlite]:
	  [0] sqlite
	  [1] mysql
	  [2] pgsql
	  [3] sqlsrv
	 > 1

	 Enter your mysql Host:
	 > 192.168.10.10

	 Enter your Database Port [3306]:
	 > 

	 Enter your database name:
	 > dreamfactory

	 Enter your database username:
	 > dreamfactory_user

	 Enter your database password:
	 > 

	 Re-enter your database password:
	 > 

	CACHE DRIVER  is not supported. Using default driver file.
	Configuration complete!
	************************* WARNING! **************************
	*
	* Please take a moment to review the .env file. You can make any 
	* changes as necessary there. 
	*
	* Please run "php artisan df:setup" to complete the setup process.
	*
	*************************************************************

With the system database configured, it's time to create the system tables and seed data and then create your first system administrator account. This is accomplished by running the `df:setup` command. Because multiple prompts are involved with this command, I'll break the command output into a few parts. Immediately after running `df:setup`, the command will create the database tables and seed data:

    $ php artisan df:setup
	*********************************************
	* Welcome to DreamFactory Setup.
	*********************************************
	Running Migrations...
	Migration table created successfully.
	Migration driver used: sqlite
	Migrating: 2015_01_27_190908_create_system_tables
	Migrated:  2015_01_27_190908_create_system_tables
	Migrating: 2015_01_27_190909_create_db_extras_tables
	Migrated:  2015_01_27_190909_create_db_extras_tables
	...
	Migrating: 2018_01_23_155210_script_implements_access_list
	Migrated:  2018_01_23_155210_script_implements_access_list
	Migrating: 2018_01_29_030233_create_bitbucket_config_table
	Migrated:  2018_01_29_030233_create_bitbucket_config_table
	Migration completed successfully.
	*********************************************
	*********************************************
	Running Seeder...
	Seeding: AppSeeder
	App resources created: admin, api_docs, file_manager
	Seeding: EmailTemplateSeeder
	Email Template resources created: User Invite Default, User Registration Default, Password Reset Default
	Service resources created: system, api_docs, files, logs, db, email
	System service updated.
	Service resources created: user
	All tables were seeded successfully.

Next you'll be prompted to create your first system administration account:

	Creating the first admin user...

	 Enter your first name:
	 > Jason

	 Enter your last name:
	 > Gilmore

	 Enter your email address?:
	 > jason.gilmore@dreamfactory.com

	 Choose a password:
	 > 

	 Re-enter password:
	 > 

	Successfully created first admin user.

Finally, you'll be prompted to make sure your application's `storage` and `bootstrap/cache` directories are properly configured. This involves making sure the directory ownership and permissions are properly set using the `chown` and `chmod` commands:

	* Please make sure following directories and all directories under 
	* them are readable and writable by your web server 
	*  -> storage/
	*  -> bootstrap/cache/
	* Example:
	*  > sudo chown -R {www user}:{your user group} storage/ bootstrap/cache/ 
	*  > sudo chmod -R 2775 storage/ bootstrap/cache/ 
	
The `{www user}` string is a placeholder for the owner of your web server daemon owner. The `{your user group}` string is a placeholder for the web server group daemon owner.

Immediately following this prompt you'll be informed of successful setup:

	**********************************************************
	******************** Setup Successful! *******************
	**********************************************************
	* Setup is complete! Your instance is ready. Please launch 
	* your instance using a browser. You can run "php artisan serve" 
	* to try out your instance without setting up a web server.
	**********************************************************

If you've installed and configured DreamFactory to run on a web server, then you can open your browser and navigate to the IP address or domain name. Otherwise, if you haven't yet installed a web server, you can run `php artisan serve`:

	$ php artisan serve
	Laravel development server started: <http://127.0.0.1:8000>

This will start a simple PHP server running on `127.0.0.1` port `8000`. Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000` and you should see the following screen:

<img src="/images/02/first_boot.png" width="800">



### Introducing the .env File



### Enabling Debugging and Logging


## Choosing an HTTP Client

Whether your API consumer is an iPhone or Android application, a SPA (Single Page Application), or another server altogether, that consumer is often referred to as the *client*. The client issues HTTP requests to the REST API, parsing the responses and reacting accordingly. Although in most cases your team will use libraries such as [Alamofire](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire) or [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to manage these requests, you'll often want to interact with the APIs in a much more fluid manner during the investigatory and learning phase. The API Docs feature serves this need well, however the API Docs interface lacks the ability to bookmark and otherwise persist queries, manage parameters programmatically using variables, and other features useful for maintaining a set of easily accessible configurations.

Fortunately, there are a number of HTTP clients which fill this void very well. Two of the most popular are [Insomnia](TODO) and [Postman](TODO), which are available on OSX and multiple operating systems, respectively. In this section we'll introduce you to both HTTP clients, and as an added bonus talk about the ubiquitous cURL client which is quite possibly the most popular piece of software you've never heard of.

### Insomnia

TODO

### POSTMan

TODO

### cURL

TODO

cURL's lack of a polished interface may lead you to believe it's inferior to Insomnia and Postman. Not so! cURL is an incomparably capable bit of software


## Conclusion

TODO

Commit message:

Added sidebar, additional ways to learn section in introduction

docs/chapter02.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# Chapter 2. Installing and Configuring DreamFactory



## Choosing a DreamFactory Version

Regardless of whether you'd like to spin up a DreamFactory instance on your local laptop, within a cloud environment such as AWS or Google Cloud, or Docker, we have a ready-made solution for you!

### The DreamFactory GitHub Repository

Cloning DreamFactory's OSS repository has long been by far the most popular way to access the software. To clone the repository you'll need to install a Git client on your local machine or a server, at which point you can clone it using the following command:

    $ git clone https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/dreamfactory/

DreamFactory is built atop the very popular [Laravel Framework](http://www.laravel.com), which is in turn built atop PHP. This means DreamFactory is almost ubiquitously supported in all hosting environments; you'll just need to make sure your hosting environment is running PHP 7.1 or greater, a recent version of a web server such as Apache or NGINX, access to one of four databases for storing configuration data (MySQL/MariaDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and MS SQL Server are supported), and that you have adequate permissions to install a few requisite PHP extensions. You can learn more about the required software and extensions via our wiki:

[http://wiki.dreamfactory.com/DreamFactory/Installation#GitHub](http://wiki.dreamfactory.com/DreamFactory/Installation#GitHub)

### Docker

Our Docker container is increasingly popular, and includes everything you need to run DreamFactory including Ubuntu 16.04, PHP 7.1, and the NGINX web server. It also includes all of the required PHP extensions, meaning you should be able to begin experimenting with the latest DreamFactory version as quickly as you can spin up the container! To learn more about the container, head over to our df-docker repository:

[https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/df-docker](https://github.com/dreamfactorysoftware/df-docker)

### Bitnami

Many users simply want to evaluate DreamFactory without putting any time or effort whatsoever into procuring a test server or fiddling with configuration issues. If you fall into this category then our Bitnami point-and-click installers are for you! These virtual machines include everything you need to begin running DreamFactory, and include a built-in database server, web server, PHP runtime, and a bunch of other useful software.

Installers are available for Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X. Download your desired version via the following link:

[https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads](https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads)

### Cloud Images

Cloud environments are the hosting solution of choice these days, and for good reason. Cloud service providers offer unsurpassed levels of stability, performance, and security, and countless additional features capable of maximizing IT teams' efficiency while minimizing costs. DreamFactory offers Bitnami images targeting all of the major cloud providers, including AWS, Azure, Google, and Oracle Cloud. Download your desired version via the following link:

[https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads](https://www.dreamfactory.com/downloads)

## Installing and Configuring DreamFactory from Source

If you've cloned the GitHub repository, you'll need to carry out a few additional steps before launching your DreamFactory instance. The first step involves installing the required PHP packages using Composer:

    $ composer install --no-dev

The `--no-dev` option tells Composer to not install the development-specific dependencies. These development dependencies are used by our OSS community and internal developers alike to assist in software development. You can review the list of both required and developmental dependencies by opening the `composer.json` file found in the project's root directory.

If you receive an error regarding `TODO WHAT IS THIS ERROR TODO`, and you don't require MongoDB, then you can quickly hurdle the issue by additionally supplying the `--ignore-platform-reqs` option when running Composer.

With the packages installed, you'll next need to configure your system database. This database will house various configuration settings associated with your instance. DreamFactory supports four databases for this purpose, including Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. Keep in mind you'll need to first create this database along with an account DreamFactory will use to connect to it.

You'll configure the system database by running a terminal command and answering a few prompts about your database configuration. 

To do so, run the following command from inside your project's root directory:

    $ php artisan df:env
	**************************************************
	* Configuring DreamFactory... 
	**************************************************
	Created .env file with default configuration.
	Created phpunit.xml with default configuration.

	 Which database would you like to use for system tables? [sqlite]:
	  [0] sqlite
	  [1] mysql
	  [2] pgsql
	  [3] sqlsrv
	 > 1

	 Enter your mysql Host:
	 > 192.168.10.10

	 Enter your Database Port [3306]:
	 > 

	 Enter your database name:
	 > dreamfactory

	 Enter your database username:
	 > dreamfactory_user

	 Enter your database password:
	 > 

	 Re-enter your database password:
	 > 

	CACHE DRIVER  is not supported. Using default driver file.
	Configuration complete!
	************************* WARNING! **************************
	*
	* Please take a moment to review the .env file. You can make any 
	* changes as necessary there. 
	*
	* Please run "php artisan df:setup" to complete the setup process.
	*
	*************************************************************

With the system database configured, it's time to create the system tables and seed data and then create your first system administrator account. This is accomplished by running the `df:setup` command. Because multiple prompts are involved with this command, I'll break the command output into a few parts. Immediately after running `df:setup`, the command will create the database tables and seed data:

    $ php artisan df:setup
	*********************************************
	* Welcome to DreamFactory Setup.
	*********************************************
	Running Migrations...
	Migration table created successfully.
	Migration driver used: sqlite
	Migrating: 2015_01_27_190908_create_system_tables
	Migrated:  2015_01_27_190908_create_system_tables
	Migrating: 2015_01_27_190909_create_db_extras_tables
	Migrated:  2015_01_27_190909_create_db_extras_tables
	...
	Migrating: 2018_01_23_155210_script_implements_access_list
	Migrated:  2018_01_23_155210_script_implements_access_list
	Migrating: 2018_01_29_030233_create_bitbucket_config_table
	Migrated:  2018_01_29_030233_create_bitbucket_config_table
	Migration completed successfully.
	*********************************************
	*********************************************
	Running Seeder...
	Seeding: AppSeeder
	App resources created: admin, api_docs, file_manager
	Seeding: EmailTemplateSeeder
	Email Template resources created: User Invite Default, User Registration Default, Password Reset Default
	Service resources created: system, api_docs, files, logs, db, email
	System service updated.
	Service resources created: user
	All tables were seeded successfully.

Next you'll be prompted to create your first system administration account:

	Creating the first admin user...

	 Enter your first name:
	 > Jason

	 Enter your last name:
	 > Gilmore

	 Enter your email address?:
	 > jason.gilmore@dreamfactory.com

	 Choose a password:
	 > 

	 Re-enter password:
	 > 

	Successfully created first admin user.

Finally, you'll be prompted to make sure your application's `storage` and `bootstrap/cache` directories are properly configured. This involves making sure the directory ownership and permissions are properly set using the `chown` and `chmod` commands:

	* Please make sure following directories and all directories under 
	* them are readable and writable by your web server 
	*  -> storage/
	*  -> bootstrap/cache/
	* Example:
	*  > sudo chown -R {www user}:{your user group} storage/ bootstrap/cache/ 
	*  > sudo chmod -R 2775 storage/ bootstrap/cache/ 
	
The `{www user}` string is a placeholder for the owner of your web server daemon owner. The `{your user group}` string is a placeholder for the web server group daemon owner.

Immediately following this prompt you'll be informed of successful setup:

	**********************************************************
	******************** Setup Successful! *******************
	**********************************************************
	* Setup is complete! Your instance is ready. Please launch 
	* your instance using a browser. You can run "php artisan serve" 
	* to try out your instance without setting up a web server.
	**********************************************************

If you've installed and configured DreamFactory to run on a web server, then you can open your browser and navigate to the IP address or domain name. Otherwise, if you haven't yet installed a web server, you can run `php artisan serve`:

	$ php artisan serve
	Laravel development server started: <http://127.0.0.1:8000>

This will start a simple PHP server running on `127.0.0.1` port `8000`. Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000` and you should see the following screen:

<img src="/images/02/first_boot.png" width="800">



### Introducing the .env File



### Enabling Debugging and Logging


## Choosing an HTTP Client

Whether your API consumer is an iPhone or Android application, a SPA (Single Page Application), or another server altogether, that consumer is often referred to as the *client*. The client issues HTTP requests to the REST API, parsing the responses and reacting accordingly. Although in most cases your team will use libraries such as [Alamofire](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire) or [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) to manage these requests, you'll often want to interact with the APIs in a much more fluid manner during the investigatory and learning phase. The API Docs feature serves this need well, however the API Docs interface lacks the ability to bookmark and otherwise persist queries, manage parameters programmatically using variables, and other features useful for maintaining a set of easily accessible configurations.

Fortunately, there are a number of HTTP clients which fill this void very well. Two of the most popular are [Insomnia](TODO) and [Postman](TODO), which are available on OSX and multiple operating systems, respectively. In this section we'll introduce you to both HTTP clients, and as an added bonus talk about the ubiquitous cURL client which is quite possibly the most popular piece of software you've never heard of.

### Insomnia

TODO

### POSTMan

TODO

### cURL

TODO

cURL's lack of a polished interface may lead you to believe it's inferior to Insomnia and Postman. Not so! cURL is an incomparably capable bit of software


## Conclusion

TODO
